Diana Ly
CS420
Game Review on Space Pirate 
10/24/2014

Space Pirate is a 2D platformer created by USF students David Haro, Susie 
Reynolds, and Bryan Relampagos. The objective of the game is to attain the 
treasure chest found near the end of each level while dodging or attacking 
flying enemies and bullets. 

THE PROS 
One of the things I enjoyed about this game was the sprites -- the main 
character especially -- as they were handmade. The music suited the game 
well as it gave it a playful touch. The menu contained instructions on how 
to play so I didn't have to fumble figuring out what the controls were. Some 
nice features were having a health bar which decreases after getting attacked 
by the enemy, a score keeper which increases when attacking an enemy or 
attaining the gold coins, and background that moves with the player. 

One of my favorite features would have to be the variety among the different 
platforms and enemies. There were normal, moving, and falling types of platforms 
which made the game difficult in level three. The non-stationary enemies moved left
to right, but did not have the same speed. Some were faster than others which made 
things interesting in level 2. Although the first two levels were a bit too easy 
which made it a little dull, the third level definitely made the game more 
challenging and thus enjoyable. 

THE CONS
What I did not enjoy about the game was how the player was not kept within the bounds 
of the game window in regards to the left and right sides. I feel like this game can be 
improved if a setting was added to have the player stay within the bounds of the game 
window width-wise only. The height is fine. Needing to exit out of the game to manually 
change the levels was also tedious and annoying after the second time to play the second 
and third levels, so changing the flow of the game to have the levels change to the next 
one automatically would also be a great improvement. There was also a bug (not sure if 
deliberate) where the trajectory of the bullets would alter with the movement of the 
game window in regards to when the camera follows the player, meaning that the bullets 
would never hit the player when jumping to get the treasure chest. 

Despite the inconvenience of needing to exit the game to play a different level and to 
restart the game, I did like the it overall and found it fun to play.